README.md, before:

What I've learned:

Standard 'Blink' program:

- how to adjust the timing for the blinking of the arduino's 'L' LED

Working with LEDs:

- Breadboard (purpose, build, etc.)
  - buses (+/- columns on edges) align vertically while the alphabetical rows align horizontally
- LED(purpose, build, etc.)
  - has positive and negative leads
  - must be used with a resistor to limit the amount of current flowing through it, or else, kaboom! (jk, or am I????)
  - 2 ways to tell which lead of the LED is positive
    - positive lead is longer
    - the negative lead enters the body of the LED, there is a flat edge to the case of the LED
    - NOTE: If you happen to have an LED that has a flat side next to the longer lead, you should assume that the longer lead is positive
- Resistors:
  - unit is called Ohm (usually shortened to Ω the Greek letter Omega)
  - denote the values of resistors in kΩ (1,000 Ω) and MΩ (1,000,000 Ω)
- used 3 different values of resistor (220Ω, 1kΩ, and 10kΩ)
  - resistors look the same, except they have different colored stripes

Detecting button press and release:

- Pull down resistor:
  - large resistor (Ex: 10kΩ) lined up to pull voltage of a pin down to a low amount
  - prevents short circuits and ensures the circuits only utilize 2 states (HIGH/LOW)
  - used in this case to detect when a button is NOT being pressed

Arduino IDE/C++:

- create a synchronous block of code, which leaves time for user to click a button
- understanding of dynamic memory allocation (why, when, and how)
- install and use libraries (Hashtable, vector, etc.)

EEPROM:

- 512 bytes of storage is available
- has a rated life expectancy
  - each address has a certain # of life cycles before it is no longer reliable
  - for the Arduino UNO R3, the EEPROM memory has a specified life of 100,000 write/erase cycles
  - can counter this life expectancy using a process known as 'whale leveling'
    - keeping track of the # of times an address is written/erased
    - once the # of times reaches the limit, you move to another address

Commit message:

Sound and Demo video (#23)
* commented out standart codebase and added example snippet for passive buzzer to simon codebase

* passive buzzer emits all frequencies once in setup method

* same frequency is used in ALL cases (start/end of game, LED push)

* declared unique frequencies for start/end of game AND each LED. Using start/end of game frequencies at the moment

* different frequencies are used for each LED

* score is reset at top of loop method rather than within gameOver method

* removed writeToLCD method and place code where it was being used, which is in 1 spot (reportScore method)

* added an extra incrementation to gameOver LED light up sequence

* added a delay to setup method and fixed bug causing incorrect output of score when previous score was >= 10

* updated README.md

* added .mp4 file to project

* updated names to allow downloading of demo video from repo

* updated README.md

README.md, after:

## Demo Video

To view a demo video, click the link below or view the .mp4 file in this repository:

- [Watch the Demo Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1n3Zc85McnGXe91AbkSI68nb93nOnUecS/view?usp=sharing)

### 📂 Alternative Approch

You can also find the demo video in this repository:

- [Download Demo Video](ArduinoSimon.mp4)

## What I've learned:

Standard 'Blink' program:

- how to adjust the timing for the blinking of the arduino's 'L' LED

Working with LEDs:

- Breadboard (purpose, build, etc.)
  - buses (+/- columns on edges) align vertically while the alphabetical rows align horizontally
- LED(purpose, build, etc.)
  - has positive and negative leads
  - must be used with a resistor to limit the amount of current flowing through it, or else, kaboom! (jk, or am I????)
  - 2 ways to tell which lead of the LED is positive
    - positive lead is longer
    - the negative lead enters the body of the LED, there is a flat edge to the case of the LED
    - NOTE: If you happen to have an LED that has a flat side next to the longer lead, you should assume that the longer lead is positive
- Resistors:
  - unit is called Ohm (usually shortened to Ω the Greek letter Omega)
  - denote the values of resistors in kΩ (1,000 Ω) and MΩ (1,000,000 Ω)
- used 3 different values of resistor (220Ω, 1kΩ, and 10kΩ)
  - resistors look the same, except they have different colored stripes

Detecting button press and release:

- Pull down resistor:
  - large resistor (Ex: 10kΩ) lined up to pull voltage of a pin down to a low amount
  - prevents short circuits and ensures the circuits only utilize 2 states (HIGH/LOW)
  - used in this case to detect when a button is NOT being pressed

Arduino IDE/C++:

- create a synchronous block of code, which leaves time for user to click a button
- understanding of dynamic memory allocation (why, when, and how)
- install and use libraries (Hashtable, vector, etc.)

EEPROM:

- 512 bytes of storage is available
- has a rated life expectancy
  - each address has a certain # of life cycles before it is no longer reliable
  - for the Arduino UNO R3, the EEPROM memory has a specified life of 100,000 write/erase cycles
  - can counter this life expectancy using a process known as 'whale leveling'
    - keeping track of the # of times an address is written/erased
    - once the # of times reaches the limit, you move to another address
